docs/intro.rst, before:

.. _Introduction:

*********************************************
Introduction to the GNAT Component Collection
*********************************************

The reusable library known as the GNAT Component Collection (GNATColl)
originated in the implementation of the GNAT Programming Studio (GPS)
technology and the GNAT Tracker web-based interface and
have thus seen heavy usage in practice.
The various components deal with a range of commonly encountered 
programming issues,
including string and text processing, memory management,
and file handling, and several of the components will be
especially useful in enterprise applications.

This document explains how to build and install GNATColl and
then describes the various modules that make up the collection:

* *Scripts*: Embedding script languages

* *Traces*: Logging information

* *Memory*: Monitoring memory usage

* *Mmap*: Reading and writing files

* *Boyer-Moore*: Searching strings

* *Paragraph filling*: Formatting text

* *Templates*: Generating text

* *Email*: Processing email messages

* *Ravenscar*: Patterns for multitasking

* *Storage Pools*: Controlling memory management

* *VFS*: Manipulating files

* *Tribooleans*: Three-state logic

* *Geometry*: Primitive geometric operations

* *Projects*: Manipulating ``gpr`` files

* *Refcount*: Reference counting

* *Config*: Parsing configuration files

* *Pools*: Controlling access to resources

* *JSON*: Handling JavaScript Object Notation

* *SQL*: Database interface

Commit message:

Main change was to reorient the emphasis in the first sentence. Also did some other wordsmithing For J617-014
git-svn-id: svn+ssh://svn.eu.adacore.com/Dev/trunk/gps@186268 936e1b1b-40f2-da11-902a-00137254ae57

docs/intro.rst, after:

.. _Introduction:

*********************************************
Introduction to the GNAT Component Collection
*********************************************

The reusable library known as the GNAT Component Collection (GNATColl)
is based on one main principle: general-purpose packages
that are part of the GNAT technology should also be available to GNAT user
application code. The compiler front end, the GNAT Programming Studio (GPS)
Interactive Development Environment, and the GNAT Tracker web-based interface
all served as sources for the components.

The GNATColl components complement the predefined Ada and GNAT libraries and
deal with a range of common programming issues
including string and text processing, memory management,
and file handling. Several of the components are
especially useful in enterprise applications.

The next chapter explains how to build and install GNATColl.
The remainder of this document then describes the various components that make up
the collection:

* *Scripts*: Embedding script languages

* *Traces*: Logging information

* *Memory*: Monitoring memory usage

* *Mmap*: Reading and writing files

* *Boyer-Moore*: Searching strings

* *Paragraph filling*: Formatting text

* *Templates*: Generating text

* *Email*: Processing email messages

* *Ravenscar*: Patterns for multitasking

* *Storage Pools*: Controlling memory management

* *VFS*: Manipulating files

* *Tribooleans*: Three-state logic

* *Geometry*: Primitive geometric operations

* *Projects*: Manipulating ``gpr`` files

* *Refcount*: Reference counting

* *Config*: Parsing configuration files

* *Pools*: Controlling access to resources

* *JSON*: Handling JavaScript Object Notation

* *SQL*: Database interface
